Refresh old EKS blog post (#4965)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/easily-create-and-manage-aws-eks-kubernetes-clusters-with-pulumi/index.md

title: Easily Create and Manage AWS EKS Kubernetes Clusters
h1: "Easily Create and Manage AWS EKS Kubernetes Clusters with Pulumi"
date: "2019-01-24"
meta_desc: "Use Pulumi to easily deploy new clusters, manage AWS resources, and deploy Kubernetes apps. See how to provision an EKS cluster with a single CLI command."
meta_image: "pulumi_k8s.png"
authors: 
  - luke-hoban
  - levi-blackstone
tags:
  - aws
  - eks
  - kubernetes
---

Provisioning, managing, and monitoring a Kubernetes cluster is

> no easy task. AWS now offers EKS to ease a lot of that burden -- but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not easy. AWS now offers EKS to reduce that burden -- but
```

it's still difficult to get up and running. Pulumi's infrastructure as

> code can help! We can now provision an entire EKS cluster with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code SDKs can help! We can provision an entire EKS cluster with a
```

single CLI command, thanks to [the `@pulumi/eks`
package](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-eks). Let's see how.
<!--more-->

{{% notes type="info" %}}
Updated December 2020 to include Python, .NET, and Go support.
{{% /notes %}}

To get started, download the free and open source
[Pulumi SDK]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}), which includes

> the `pulumi` CLI we'll be using below. If you don't already

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `pulumi` CLI we'll use below. If you don't
```

have the AWS CLI installed and configured, [set that up too]({{< relref "/docs/intro/cloud-providers/aws/setup" >}}).
You'll need AWS credentials to access your AWS account and
provision resources.

From here, there are two ways to proceed:

- Provision a new cluster with a single CLI command
- Use infrastructure as code to manage clusters ... including Kubernetes resources themselves!

## Installing Amazon EKS with Pulumi

With the Pulumi CLI installed and configured, a single command will
provision your cluster:

    $ pulumi new https://github.com/pulumi/apps/eks

> Using this template will walk you through configuring a few settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template will walk you through configuring a few settings
```

> such as the region you'd like to deploy into, the instance type, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as the region to deploy, the instance type, and
```

        [Output] public Output<string> Kubeconfig { get; set; }
    }

}

class Program
{
    static Task<int> Main(string[] args) => Deployment.RunAsync<EksStack>();
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi-eks/sdk/go/eks/cluster"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
    // Create an EKS cluster.
    cluster, err := cluster.NewCluster(ctx, "cluster",
        cluster.ClusterArgs{
            InstanceType:    pulumi.String("t2.medium"),
            DesiredCapacity: pulumi.Int(2),
            MinSize:         pulumi.Int(1),
            MaxSize:         pulumi.Int(2),
        },
    )
    if err != nil {
        return err
    }

    // Export the cluster's kubeconfig.
    ctx.Export("kubeconfig", cluster.Kubeconfig)

    return nil
    })
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

## Adding resources, and deploying Helm charts

You can extend or modify this program to change the details of the
Amazon EKS cluster, or to install additional AWS or Kubernetes resources
to associate with the cluster. For example, if applications running in

> the cluster need access to an Amazon S3 bucket, simply create a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the cluster need access to an Amazon S3 bucket, create a new
```

`Bucket` resource:

{{< chooser language "typescript,python,csharp,go" >}}

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("assets");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket("assets")
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
var bucket = new Aws.S3.Bucket("bucket");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{})
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> Or, to install some Kubernetes applications automatically into the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, to install Kubernetes applications automatically into the
```
